Give examples of OR, NOT, AND, XOR in google sheets

For these examples, let's assume we have a spreadsheet with columns A (Name), B (Age), and C (City).

Definition of OR Function:
The OR function returns TRUE if any of the conditions are met. It only returns FALSE if all conditions are false.
"At least one" requirement:
The question asks for records containing "at least one" of the required terms. This aligns perfectly with the OR function's behavior.
How OR works in data retrieval:
When used in database queries or spreadsheet filters, OR will include any record that matches at least one of the specified criteria.
Example:
If you're searching for records containing either "apple" OR "orange", it will return all records that have either "apple", "orange", or both

NOT Function:

The NOT function returns the opposite of a logical value. It's often used with other functions.
Example:
=NOT(B2>30)
This formula will return TRUE if the age in B2 is 30 or younger, and FALSE if it's over 30.

AND Function:

The AND function returns TRUE if all of its arguments are TRUE.
Example:
=AND(B2>18, C2="New York")
This formula will return TRUE if the person is over 18 AND lives in New York, otherwise it returns FALSE.

XOR Function:

The XOR (Exclusive OR) function returns TRUE if an odd number of arguments are TRUE, and FALSE otherwise. Google Sheets doesn't have a built-in XOR function, but we can create one using other logical functions.
Example:
=IF(OR(B2>30, C2="London"), NOT(AND(B2>30, C2="London")), FALSE)
This formula will return TRUE if either the person is over 30 OR lives in London, but not both. It returns FALSE if both or neither conditions are true.
To use these in practice:

You could use these formulas in an IF statement to return certain values based on the condition.
You could use them in conditional formatting to highlight cells that meet specific criteria.
You could use them with FILTER or QUERY functions to extract data that meets certain conditions.

Remember, when using these functions, make sure to adjust the cell references (B2, C2, etc.) to match your actual data range.